Logic (Thought) Problems
Logic, or thought, puzzles don’t fit cleanly into previous chapters, because they are not coding
problems. However, they have been asked in technical interviews to assess reasoning ability, so we
pose them to you here. With each, just as with estimation challenges, consider the information and 
assets you have and make the best use of them. Many companies are moving away from brainteaser
puzzles, so don’t worry if these questions are ‘not your thing’. Just have fun with them!
A common class of thought problems involves identical objects whose weights vary slightly. Unless
stated, assume “scales of justice” that compare two quantities (rather than a scale with a readout). 
 Finding the Fraud 
Given 64 apparently identical coins, one of which is heavy, how many weighings do you need (in the
worst-case), to determine the bad coin? How low can you get the average number of weighings? 
Second: what if it is possible that there is NO bad coin? Does that change your calculus? 
 Revealing the Wrong
Given twelve apparently identical coins, one of which is either light or heavy, how many weighings do
you in order to identify the bad coin – as well as whether it is light or heavy? 
Second: what if it is possible that there is NO bad coin? Does that change your calculus? 
Third: extrapolating, what is the maximum number of coins you can handle with five weighings?
 Querying the Quarters
You have a digital scale that gives very precise readouts; it can handle up to 90 grams. Six vendors 
have each given you large stacks of apparently identical quarters. One vendor is dishonest: evidently 
his entire coin stack is counterfeit. Each counterfeit quarter weighs 6 grams instead of the usual 5.67g.
If you know that one pile consists of heavy quarters, determine which one, in only a single weighing. 
 Lighting the Way
Three light switches are located outside a room, where we cannot see which lamps they control. Andy 
figured a way to set the switches to determine the mapping after a single trip into the room. Can you?
 Making the Train
A family of four must cross a bridge to reach a midnight train on the other side. The rickety bridge only
holds two; they can only cross with their one flashlight. The youngest can cross in 1 minute; the next 
can cross in 2; the parent in 6; the grandparent needs 12. Can they make their train in 20 minutes? 
 Escaping the Hunt 
Fiona Fox wants Dunn the Duck for lunch. Now Dunn is in the center of a circular pond. Fiona cannot 
enter the water; she must run around it. To fly away and escape, Dunn must reach the edge before 
Fiona reaches him. Fiona runs four times as fast as Dunn swims. Is Dunn done, or can he escape?
 Surviving the Train
While hiking, Minh and Crazy Brian find a narrow train tunnel running north-south. At Crazy Brian’s
urging, they go in. At exactly 2/3 through this tunnel (closer to the north end than the south end), they 
hear a train nearing! Crazy Brian runs toward the train, just exiting the tunnel as it enters. Minh runs the
other way, also barely escaping the tunnel as the train passes. Both Minh and Crazy Brian ran 10mph. 
How fast was the train? Also, did the train enter at the north end or the south end of this tunnel?
 Racing the Balls
Two identical-length tracks are each wide enough for a rolling marble. Starting at the same moment, 
marbles accelerate downward, diverge (one upward, one downward), reconverge at a point lower than 
where they diverged, and continue onward, both finishing. Do the marbles finish at the same time? 
 Crossing the River
Traveling with a fox, a hen and a sack of corn, you reach a river with rowboat. The boat can only fit you
and one other. If left alone, hen eats corn; likewise fox eats hen. Can you get everything across? How? 
 Burning the String
You have two pieces of string, and evidently both will take precisely 60.0 seconds to burn – although
they burn at unpredictable rates during that time. Can you use these to measure 45.0 seconds exactly? 
 Outfoxing the Fox
Fiona Fox is hungry again. She has trapped Reggie Rabbit inside a circular pen. Reggie can run 
exactly as fast as Fiona. Can Fiona catch Reggie? What is Reggie’s best strategy to survive? 
 Swapping the Lockers
You are at a high school with lockers numbered 1-100. First open them all. Then, for all locker numbers 
divisible by two, toggle the locker door (if open, close it; if closed, open it). Then, toggle all that are 
divisible by three. Then, toggle those divisible by four…. Repeat this process for successive integers 
until, finally, you toggle the one and only locker (#100) that is divisible by one hundred. How many
lockers are open at this point? Which ones? Why? 
 Combining the Numbers
You are given five numbers. Using any combination of the four common arithmetic operators (+ - * /), 
but keeping these numbers in the order they were given, combine the first four to make a total of the 
fifth. For example, given (3, 10, 2, 40, 100), one solution is (3*10*2)+40, which equals 100. 
 Pricing the Movie
A movie plus popcorn costs $11. Movie costs $10 more than popcorn. How much does popcorn cost? 
 Building the Widgets
If 5 machines build 5 widgets in 5 hours, how long will 100 machines take to build 100 widgets? 
 Padding the Pond
A large pond has a patch of lily pads in the center. Each day the patch doubles in size. The entire pond 
is covered in 48 days. How many days does it take to cover half the pond?


 Elevating the Passengers
Design the operating software for an elevator system that serves a 20-story office building. Each of the 
four elevators contain buttons for floors 1-20, for passengers to press when they enter the elevator, 
indicating where they want to travel. The north elevator receives more sunlight than the other elevators. 
Near the elevator doors on each floor there are Up and Down buttons to call an elevator going that 
direction. The lobby at floor 1 has a marble floor. Elevators can handle 1000 kilograms of weight, and 
100 persons work on each floor. The busiest times for elevator travel are between 7:30am and 8:15am, 
and between 4:30pm and 6:30pm. Office workers are, for the most part, patient – except for old man
Surrey who always complains about ‘slow creaky elevators’. The building owner, Bo, has a Spaniel 
named ‘Spike’, and this dog weighs exactly 10.0 pounds. The doors to the elevators remain open for 10 
seconds at a time, and the elevator cars take an average of 1 second/floor to ascend and descend. 
Spike likes the south elevator, which has transparent glass walls. Bo thinks Spike is just about perfect2
. 
What data structures might you use to manage this elevator system? 
More importantly, can you produce a state diagram representing the logic that governs the elevators?