Estimation
Estimation problems assess your ability to break problems into smaller pieces to be solved separately. 
In some cases they measure judgment. Don’t get hung up on a precise answer. Remember: each part 
of your answer is only accurate to an order of magnitude. Use numbers that make mental math easier. 
Here’s a general process for estimation problems. Break the problem into pieces that you can estimate 
more accurately, then chain them together. Often the trick is the mental math to get the units right.
Example question: “How tall would a stack of credit cards with every possible credit card number be?”
Example answer: “Well, 16 digits makes 1016 different numbers. I’m told that one digit is a checksum , 
so that makes 1015 possibilities.” (If the questioner says ignore the checksum, then stick with 1016.) 
“Let’s assume we will stack about 25 cards in an inch, which makes 100 cards in 4 inches. That means 
we have 4 x 1013 inches in our stack. Dividing by 12 inches in a foot (a little more than 10) would make
maybe 3.5 x 1012 feet, and dividing by 5280 feet/mile (a little more than 5000) makes about 6 x 108
 – 
600 million miles! Whoa, that’s, like, more than three round-trips between the Earth and the Sun!!” 
 Piano Tuners
How many piano tuners are there in the U.S.? 
 Basketballs in a 747
How many basketballs fit into a 747? With your 
answer, state which parts of the plane are used.
 Kindergarten Teachers
How many kindergarten teachers work in the
state of Washington? 
 Weight of a Ferry
What is the weight of the Bainbridge Island ferry?
Full or empty? 
 Hot Diggity
How many hot dogs made from an adult cow? 
 Beachfront Property in Colorado
How much would the ocean rise, if all ice melted? 
 Earth’s Circumference
What is the circumference of the earth?
 Gas Stations
How many gas stations are there in this state?
 Line ‘Em Up
How many golf balls would you require, to
completely encircle the Earth at the equator?
 Building Capacity
How many people work in that 72-story office
building over there, would you say? 
 Painting a Room
To paint this room, how many cans of paint 
would we need? Just guess, why don’t you…. 
 Blades of Grass
How many blades of grass would you estimate
there are, in your state?
 Lottery Stack
The Powerball lottery contains seven numbers,
each number between 1 and 60. How tall would a 
stack of every possible ticket be?