 Smarter Sorting
For Yi’s data science dissertation, she needs a 
distribution graph containing billions of data points. 
Amazingly, she found an array containing IQs for every 
person on earth, and now you must sort it. All values are 
between 0 and 220, and the array is 7 Billion elements 
long. What are your run-time and space complexities? 
 Quick Sort 3
Create a QuickSort3 function that uses 
Partition3 to sort an array in-place. 
Can you devise specific arrays that are 
sorted much faster with QuickSort3
than with QuickSort?
 Master Invoice List
Tran’s House of Trains™ is a booming online hobby store. Each department head already has a list of 
invoices for that group, sorted by timestamp that day. They need to put these lists together for their
chief executive, Chris. What do you recommend, and what is the performance of this solution? Write a 
function that will do the work needed. 
129
Chapter 12 – Sorts 
 Urban Dictionary Daily Add 
On his off days, Kris volunteers at UrbanDictionary.com, because it makes him feel hip and fresh. Their
collection is about 8 million words, and they receive 2000 new words a day. Because they want to keep 
their data hip and fresh, they incorporate any new words within minutes of submittal, re-sorting their 
entire collection every five minutes. Kris notices that only about 7 words are added each time they sort. 
He’s thinking selection sort (their current design) might not be the best choice. What do you think?
 Pancake Sort
Christopher Burns has successfully defied his last name, cooking a wonderful breakfast for the entire
Dojo without singeing a single flapjack. Now you have a large stack of pancakes of varying sizes, ready 
to serve. You believe you should first sort them from smallest (on top) to widest (on bottom), as syrup
pours best that way – plus, it reminds you of the Towers of Hanoi (Minh’s favorite recursive problem).
Your only tool is a spatula that you can insert below any pancake, to flip it and all pancakes above.
Pancake sizes are represented in an array: for example, 4 pancakes already stacked from smallest to 
biggest would be [1,2,3,4]. If you insert the spatula between second and third pancakes, then 
flipped, the stack would now be [2,1,3,4]. Given an arbitrarily large stack of N pancakes, how many
spatula flips will it take to sort the pancakes into width-order? Design a high-performance algorithm, 
because everyone is getting hungry…. 
 Radix Sort
For an array 7 million long with values from 0 to 4 
billion, how rapidly can you radix-sort it in-place? 
You can create a new array as large as the
original. What are the run-time complexity and
the space complexity of this solution, and does it 
depend on the values you are sorting? 
 Wiggle Sort
A sequence of numbers is “wiggle-sorted” if the 
differences between each successive value 
always alternates between positive and negative.
Equal values should not be adjacent. Given an 
array of numerical values, wiggle-sort the array. 
What is the Big-O of your run-time performance? 
 Belt Sort
Given array of objects representing students, 
where each student object has .belt attribute, 
sort in-place so all students with same belt are 
adjacent, in order “none”, “yellow”, “red”, “black”,
“double-black”, “triple-black” and “triple-black plus 
blue”. Dojo students (or their belt records) are not
just numbers, so naïve sorts might not work…. 
 Median of Unsorted Array
Create a function that determines the median of 
an array of unsorted values. When Sosho 
claimed he could ‘name that tune’ in just O(N), 
the Dojo was all aflutter. Any solution is fine, but 
doing this in O(N) has been agreed-upon across
the industry as an ‘interesting problem’.