1 - Is Word Alphabetical
Nikki, a queen of gentle sarcasm, loves the word facetiously. Lance helpfully points out that it is the only known English word that contains all five vowels in alphabetical order, and it even has a ‘y’ on the end! Nikki takes a break from debugging to turn and give him an acid stare – indeed a look that was delivered arseniously. Given a string, return whether all contained letters are in alphabetical order.

2 - D Gets Jiggy
Write a function that accepts as a parameter a string containing someone’s name. Return a string containing the following oh-so-cool greeting: strip off the first letter of the name, capitalize this new word, and add " to the [first letter]!" Given "Dylan", return "Ylan to the D!"

3 - Common Suffix
Lance is writing his opus: Epitome, an epic tome of beat poetry. Always ready for a good rhyme, he constantly seeks words that end with the same letters. Write a function that, when given a word array, returns the largest suffix (word-end) common to all words in the array. For inputs ["deforestation", "citation", "conviction", "incarceration"], return "tion" (not all that creative a rhyming point). If it is ["nice", "ice", "baby"], return "", because that’s just ... not.

4 - Book Index
Martin is writing his opus: a book of algorithm challenges, set as lyrics to a suite of a cappella fugues. Some of ‘those fugueing challenges’ are less popular than others, so he needs an index. Given a sorted array of pages where a term appears, produce an index string. Consecutive pages should form ranges separated by a hyphen. For [1,13,14,15,37,38,70], return string "1, 13-15, 37-38, 70". Take care to get all the commas and spaces correct: Martin is palpably particular (practically persnickety!) about patchy punctuation.

5 - Drop the Mike
Create a standalone function that accepts an input string, removes leading and trailing white space (at beginning and end only), capitalizes the first letter of every word, and returns that string. If original string contains the word "Mike" anywhere, immediately return "stunned silence" instead.

6 - Coin Change with Object
As before, given a number of U.S. cents, return
the optimal configuration of coins, in an object.

7 - Max/Min/Average with Object
Given an array, return an object containing the array’s max, min and average values.